This is Jockel Podcast number 282 with Echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening, Echo.
A 44-year-old, what man was among those involved in a three-day fight recently as part of Operation
Adelboro in Vietnam? He is Charles F. Wittis, who is stationed at Fort Sill until June with
the fourth battalion, 30th Infantry, and now serves as a platoon sergeant in Vietnam with
company A, 1st Battalion, 27th Entry, Infantry, 25th Infantry Division. The 24-year Army
Veterans' wife, Florence, and children Pat, David Sharon Gary, and Wanda, reside in
Latin. A married daughter lives in Litchfield, Minnesota. Operation Adelboro was not the first
time sergeant Wittis has seen action. As he served with the first Infantry Division during
World War II and saw action in North Africa, Sicily, the Normandy invasion, France, Belgium,
Luxembourg, German-Nee, and Chexlovakia.
So he had some combat experience. He also served in Korea with the Intelligence and Reconnaissance
Platoon of the 19th Infantry Regiment 24th Infantry Division. Operation Adelboro has been
described as the biggest US action of the Vietnam War. The 43-day operation involves some
25,000 American soldiers in the jungles of Tainin province northwest of Sagan. A cracked
open on the toughest and oldest of the Hong Kong strongholds. The campaign ended last
Saturday with a claimed bag of more than 1,100 communist regulars killed and nearly 2400
tons of rice captured plus hordes of other supplies.
I don't think that the fighting out there was as bad as in itself as either World War II
or Korea, but this was much more confusing. In Korea, you at least had lines over here.
They were all around you. Sergeant Wittis said, at first I thought we'd run into a platoon
on patrol. But when the fighting continued, I knew we'd run into a much stronger force.
I don't really have time to think about what was going on. My time was spent getting wounded
out and getting the ammo to the men. Those assaults were the first I'd seen since Korea.
They were just the same type that we called Banzai attacks. Our men were outstanding.
As good as any I saw in World War II or Korea.
End quote. Another taking part in the operation was PFC John Cosserato of Linhurst, New Jersey,
who received his baptism of fire on those three days. Up to that combat action, his combat
experience had been a short sweep during which his unit received a little sniper fire.
I remember the firing was very heavy for a while and then it stopped. He said,
I thought it was over. I'd heard that they hit you and ran, but it was far from over.
We were too busy with the wounded to really think about what was happening. The biggest thing I
remembered was the sun. It seemed like I couldn't get any place where it was cool enough to think straight.
It was worse than I had imagined combat to be. There was a feeling of helplessness. The bullets were
flying around us and we couldn't see who was shooting them. I really respect the medics.
They were right out there in the middle of it. It was a good feeling to know that if you get wounded,
those guys will come and help you. After it was all over, that night I realized what I went through.
You wonder why you are alive when a lot of other people are gone.
That's a newspaper article from 1966 from out there in Laughton, Oklahoma. It's talking about
Operation Adelboro, which is mentioned a few times in the article. The operations named after
Adelboro Massachusetts, where the 196th light infantry brigade had been reactivated out of four
devins mass chusets. The 196th initiated this operation after they had only been in country for about two months.
I would say this newspaper article paints the battle in a very positive picture, but it was a rough
battle, very rough battle. The brigade commander was an inexperienced guy. He was an inexperienced
infighting infantry. He didn't really prioritize next cue. Laugh some control at various points
in the battle of what was happening. And in the end, even though as reported, there was over a
thousand enemy kill, there was also some significant loss on the American side. 155 men killed and
five missing from the first fourth and 25th infantry divisions. And the 196th. And I couldn't pin this
down. I believe there was four medals of honor that were awarded for actions during this battle.
And it was the largest series of air mobile operations at that time. And it was also a baptism of fire.
As I mentioned, for the 196th light infantry out of out of four devins mass chusets. And
as I was reading about this battle, I started thinking about that idea of light infantry. And
just doing some reading, doing some research. And I came across a document that I thought was worth
discussing. The document is called Proverbs of the Light Infantry, which out of the gate, you know,
I'm kind of already thinking, this is going to be good to go. To written by a guy named Major Scott
or Mick Michael, he's an army officer. And not only is he a military guy, obviously being in the army,
being a major in the army, but he's also written a bunch historically speaking on light infantry,
specifically wrote a book called a historical perspective on light infantry. He wrote another book
called Stumbling Bear, Soviet military performance in Afghanistan. So he's got, you know,
like I said, the military background. He's also got this historical background, which I think
served him well and put in together this bunch of Proverbs, which were published in a magazine
that I was lucky enough to find. So let's check out this document. Starts off history,
provides many examples that could help define contemporary concepts. Here's an attempt to define
the generic light infantry and suggest possible training tasks, Proverbs of the Light Infantry.
By Major Scott or Mick Michael, US Army. So there's an article which I'll go through quickly.
What exactly does Army mean by the term light infantry? What is the difference between light
infantry and regular infantry? He is light infantry merely regular, regular infantry made light
by stripping away a heavy equipment and vehicles or is it something quite different in terms of
tactical style attitudes and utility? And this is what hit me is, look, when I, when I do these,
when I, when I look at something, when I read something, if I'm thinking it's strict military
information, then I'll save it for when I go and talk to military troops. However, much of the time,
what you find is that military information, military knowledge, military proverbs in this place,
are something that you can take and apply to absolutely anything in life. So when he's talking
about light infantry, it sounds super specific. It's a lot more broad. These things can be applied,
a lot more broadly. Back to the book, serving the official literature on the light division.
One is hard put to avoid the conclusion that our Army leadership is taking the view that light
infantry is nothing more than regular infantry made light for the purpose. For the overwriting
purpose of strategic mobility, a number of facts support this conclusion. First, the initial design
parameters for the division focused on restrictions, on size, not operational employment.
The forced designers of the new light division labored under three basic parameters.
One, a 10,000 man personnel ceiling, to a deployability limit of 500 or less,
C141 sorties and three a requirement for the division to have nine battalion maneuver elements.
So what he's saying there is, when they made this thing, what they base it off of is they
wanted to be able to deploy this thing rapidly. You know, only 500 flights of C141, which is actually
a lot of flies. But you know, you're going to get 10,000 people deployed in a short amount of time.
Okay, so that's what they're looking to do. But he goes on a little bit. I'm going to skip ahead a
little bit. There's more, there should be more to it. It shouldn't be just a little bit lighter.
That shouldn't be the goal of light infantry. There should be some differences as well.
He says certainly the army has not ignored the peculiar tactical characteristics of the division.
It has, after all, developed light leaders course and undertaken a multitude of tests and
studies to determine how to fight the division. But the hallmark of the division remains its
strategic lightness, not its tactical lightness. This is an imbalance, not dismiss lightly.
And he literally wrote and here, not upon. So the majors got some, got some comedic chops for
I believe that it shows a lack of appreciation for the real meaning of light infantry. So he's
arguing here that it's not just a regular infantry unit that has less equipment that
have a different attitude and he gets to it here in contrast. And this is why I think this applies.
Because we don't want to think that's so fascinating for instance about GJ2. Is it allow
someone who's smaller and weaker to beat someone that's bigger and stronger? How can you do that
tactics techniques, procedures, strategy, skills? Light infantry, well, light infantry can beat
heavier infantry. How do they do that? The same thing that you use in GJ2. Businesses. Well,
you're in a business, you've got to competitor that's bigger than you and stronger than you.
And more capitalized than you are. How can you possibly beat them? That's where I'm going. That's
what we want to know, right? That's why we love the GJ2. Right? So that's why we kind of,
we kind of love the light infantry too. And we want to learn from the light infantry. Just like we
learn from GJ2 when we apply it to business, we apply it to life. We can learn from the light infantry
so that we can take advantage. So I'm sure you're going to go into it. But the light infantry
essentially is it's for speed, right? Rapid deploy, rapid deploy ability. Yeah. But it's like where
being the speed is more important or is a significant of significant importance in the situation.
So, but with that speed comes certain drawbacks. So they have to apply certain techniques given
those drawbacks. Exactly. How does Jeff Glover tap out echo Charles? Yeah. Can you do it? How does
he tap out Joko? Can he do it because he's bigger and stronger? Can he do it because he's
can apply more force than I can? No. He can out maneuver us. Yeah. He can out maneuver he can move.
He can use his lightness and what else is he have flexibility. And then he has special
little tactics, techniques and procedures that he can use. A little Jeff Glover, like a little monkey
on your back. So here we get into it. In contrast to the general American use of the term
light infantry as regular infantry may light, there exists another interpretation mostly European
and context and origins, which is not tied to for structure or strategic mobility, nearly so
originally as it is in the United States. This article sheds light on this opposing concept and
sites a list of proverbs which characterizes operations by what could be referred to as classic
light infantry. There are three primary characteristics of light infantry which distinguish it
from regular infantry, one an attitude of self-reliance, two a propensity for improvisation and flexibility
three a specific common tactical style. So those are the three things that he's saying are the
true differentiators. The attitude of self-reliance is probably the most significant of the three
attributes since the others are founded on it. Self-reliance is based on high levels of self-confidence,
discipline, trust, unique cohesion and a never say die approach to problems.
A presupposes the possession of highly developed individual skills not usually found in the regular
infantry soldier. So discipline, trust, unique cohesion, the never say die approach to problems,
which I like, but you know leadership and strategy and tactics in that book I talked about
that's good attitude to have. I'm never going to quit but you also need to have the
detachment to take a look at a problem where you're throwing all your resources and not winning
and say you know what I'm going to throw my resources at this problem in a different way.
We don't want to lose the ability to think. We don't want never say die to translate to never think
of another solution to a problem that we're facing. Light infantry, know that no matter what
the situation they can make due by turning the situation to their advantage. Love that.
Oh, there's bad weather. Cool. Watch us. We're going to use that to our advantage.
Oh, there's tough terrain. Great. We're going to use that to our advantage.
Classic light infantry almost distains logistics. A believing that is it is possible to live in
on and off the land and to use the enemy's supplies and weapons if necessary. Self-reliance,
transens, unfavorable circumstances and finds a way to accomplish the mission through innovation,
imagination and perseverance. Distains logistics. We don't even want support. We don't even want a
supply chain. We're going to live off the land.
Well, light infantry's attitude of self-reliance leads directly to a propensity for flexibility
and improvisation. The light infantry cannot afford a rigid approach to tactical problems.
So I love that because now we're going back on the fact that we have a never say die attitude.
Guess what? We also can't afford a rigid approach to tactical problems. So we got a good
dichotomy that's getting balanced out now. We were a little nervous at first.
Instead, light infantry seeks to respond quickly to change, turning its strengths against the
enemies' weaknesses in ways that the enemy does not expect. Yes, due to it's it.
The light infantry leader improvises to accomplish his mission by changing his tactics and
organization whenever necessary. So that's very different from traditional military thought.
Right? Well, we got a different problem. Just change our organization, change our tactics. What do we
got to do? Old equipment is used in new ways and new methods are developed to meet a changing
situation. Light infantry is a light of foot, so to speak, and light and quick of mind as well.
I wouldn't even see as well. I'd say that's probably the predominant
trait that we want. Light of mind, quick of mind.
Amazing how people get entrenched in their own little ideas or their own big ideas.
Yes, sir. Entrenched. Can't move. The light infantry uses improvisation and flexibility as a combat
multiplier thereby frequently achieving a psychological advantage over an enemy which may outman
and outgun it. Oh, so I'm going to someone the other day. I'm hearing him, he's trying,
he's asking me to help him come up with a strategic plan. A, B, C, D, E, F. And he's getting some resistance.
He's got different parts of the team, pulling them in different directions. And he's having a hard
time making a decision of like, well, we could do this, but then if this tap, we could do that,
but then I'm worried about this. So it's a problem. And what I'm sitting there listening to them
and I'm thinking, and I have to play this mental game with myself because the way that you
don't find an answer when you're talking to someone is to try so hard to understand what their
perspective is that you become wrapped up in the problem yourself. So I was kind of doing that.
I'm thinking, well, he says, well, you know, this group is saying that we should do this and
this other group is saying that we should do that. And I'm starting to weigh those two groups out and
see what's once, you know, you know, I'm saying so I'm starting I'm getting too close to it.
So I'm listening. So what I have to do is I have to actually play this little game with
myself where I say, okay, what would I actually really do if I was in the situation?
And I said, hey, neither one of these groups know what's going to happen and neither do you.
And you right now are trying to make a rigid plan about a future that is unknown to you. Let's
reassess the plan and come up with one that revolves around flexibility and adaptability,
not about not around rigidity. Problem solved. And that's really all that took.
That's really all that took. How can we come up with a more flexible plan?
We don't know, do you know what's going to happen tomorrow?
Okay, so we can come up with a plan, but we want a flexible plan because it you can plan to go to the beach,
but we don't know what the weather's going to be. Yes, kind of like the overpacking thing we talked about
a long time ago where a refresh my memory. You know, like that's why you wind up overpacking because you're
like, what if we do that? What if we do this? What if we do this? What if we go swimming? What if we go
whatever and it's like, you don't know if you're even going to go, you don't even have a plan to go to dinner.
Even though you kind of know you go to dinner sometimes, you know, and then you do that too much.
Right, you're over here over packing. Yeah, I'll let you're Levison, Levison.
Yeah, Levison, but that's the long term. He's had the Iran.
That's some light infantry traveling there. Yes, and he's got a backpack and $8. He might be
straight up over light infantry traveling. I was thinking about I was thinking about him
from this perspective, you know, you do so much contingency planning, right? In the military.
What if this happens? What if that happens? He must have been looking at contingency plans. Like,
Oh, no worry, it'll be good. Hopefully not. And that's the key to that's one of the keys to
light infantry. Yeah, flexible planning. Yeah, especially with that approach, you know, so you
you go to, in our case, we'll go to Koi. You need a certain amount of things that you need. You're
going to need like seven. Yeah, like shorts. You just surf shorts. In fact, you get the hybrid shorts.
A surf shorts plus casual. Okay. Same thing. We have some of them. Yeah, you know, a shirt,
you know, a few shirts or whatever. Make sure you have a lot of your machine over there.
Two brush. Two brush. Two paste. If you can kind of get toothpaste there and really a
tooth brush. Yeah. And that's a big part too, where, you know, kind of like leaving off the land.
And the sounds dumb. I know, but it's the same thing. It's the same thing. So you're really
good at like LA. You just count going on a long, it's an off the land. It is the travel version
of leaving off the land. When you go to a civilized place, what I'm saying is the stretch. Yeah,
you don't when you go to like LA or something. And you're like, should I be there for two days?
Um, you know, two, two and a half hour drive or whatever. It's like like a better bring enough to face or a better
right, you can stop it any store in LA and get it. Just leave off the land. Don't look at that stuff.
Let me can live off the land. It's the same thing. That being actually a good reality television.
Echo living off the land. Good. It's for installing rolling into a Ralph's in LA. I can make this work.
It's the same thing. It's exactly the same thing. The travel version.
Exactly. Never mind. Honten building a bow, hunting down and killing an animal and scanning it. Never
mind that. No, no, let's two advanced. We're rolling into vans.
Check. All right. So we're saying flexible. Yeah. We are prepared to live off the land if needed.
If there's a washer right there. Well, you're going to bring that much clothes. You seem
to be the same. My first deployment. I went to Guam. Yeah. And I thought I was going to know them.
Right. So I wasn't. I didn't plan for like a bunch of civilian stuff to be happening. I didn't plan to be
you know down at the beach all day. Most days, which is what we actually did on my first deployment.
And I think I had maybe two pairs of shorts and I just wore them the entire time. I would wear
one for like a week because you're just in the ocean. You're, you know, you're taking a fresh water shower.
And you're just totally good to go. Yeah. Even off the land as they say. Yeah, man. That's a,
and that's how quiet. Like you're wearing your shorts. So you're going to the beach in
pretty much the whole time. Pretty much. Yeah. So yeah, you bring two of those. You're pretty good.
Pretty shallow back up. You got back up. Yeah. That's true. Check. See, I knew there was light
infantry application, even the echoed trails exist. It's where they're. Yeah. We're there. All right.
Back to the book. Not surprisingly self-aliance improvisation and flexibility,
pre-set unique tactical style as the key features of which are surprised, stealth, shock,
and offensiveness. The light infantry always seek to retain the initiative to keep the
enemy off balance. That was, uh, here's a good quote from Dean Listch, because I was training with
him the other day and what he was teaching class. He said, okay. So the guy on the bottom,
across side, what advantage is does he have? Were you here for this cross?
No, but given what you're saying right now, he said that. Yeah. So he, you know, and everyone kind of
throws, actually there's not a lot of guesses, because let's face it. When you're on the bottom
when someone's across side on you, you're not feeling a bunch of advantages. So he looked at it
with a positive attitude. And he said, no one, you're on the bottom and some of the cross sign
on you, you can't fall down. Yeah. That's a good attitude. Yes. That's a good attitude. I thought of
another one and say it to him. I'll have to discuss it with him. It's the, the person is going to
have to give space to submit you in most cases from a cross side. There's going to be an
opportunity when if people try and submit you. If you'll just hold you, you're, you're going to
get held. Yeah. But if they make movement to advance position or to submit you, they're,
the advantage that you have is there's going to be some space. Yeah. Like, I think there's even less space
if, if, if I'm in Dean Lister's closed guard, I feel like I can move less even when he's going
for something than if he's across side. That's kind of how I feel might be particular to my
style or whatever, but can't fall down when you're already on the ground. That's a big advantage. I guess.
Off balance. The way that a good GJ2 player would attack your balance, that is just,
that that's the same thing we have to think about on the battlefield. How can we keep the
enemy off balance in the business world? If the, if the competitors know exactly what we're
going to do, they just plan for it. They make a plan. And the more they think they know what you're
going to do, the less flexible their plan is. So we need to do something that throws them off balance.
Going to be good for you. Light infantry operates most frequently at night and uses terrain
at hand to full advantage. Light infantry is terrain oriented and is able to switch operations
from one type of terrain to another without paralysis of the mind. Parallysis of the mind.
How often you see that? It's very, it's actually a specific thing. A switch in terrain,
a switch in environment, and people walk up. I see it. Yeah, I can see that.
Especially, and this goes back to something the army said, especially when it's a surprise.
If I surprise you with something, that's when brain freeze happens. If you're going to see a
common, you're preparing for it. So it's almost like surprise has to be utilized to cause people to freeze
up. Yeah, in my opinion. Moreover, in combat, the light infantry is logistics conscious, but not
logistics dependent. Light infantry relies on superior tactics, not superior firepower to win the battle.
That's your answer. The short discussion. This short discussion barely scratches the surface of
the issue. It does, however, capture the essence of classic light infantry, the Proverbs, which are
listed here, going to more detail. And hopefully clarify the picture somewhat further. They have been
gleamed from the close study of several excellent light infantry forces in the recent past.
Although many of these Proverbs apply equally well to regular infantry, as a group, they do a fair
job of embodying the nature of classic light infantry as distinct from regular infantry in conclusion.
Even though many of these Proverbs should be embraced by all infantry, not just light infantry,
history is demonstrated the difficulty of including the difficulty of inculcating the light
infantry virtue or style, except in small segments, usually elite elements of national armies.
So what do you say in there is? These are great. And they'll work for regular infantry.
But these are a little bit harder to grow inside of an organization. So chances are, even though
they're good, idea to try. Chants are, you're not going to be as effective making this happen.
Now, I can tell you that I think this thing was written decently, I don't know, 40 years ago,
something like that. I think times have changed. I think you'd find going out and me actually
working with light infantry units. Man, they're good. So, sorry, with regular infantry units as well.
And armored infantry units as well. I've worked with all of them and they're all freaking good to go.
That's what you get good when you've been at war as a nation for a couple decades.
The US Army, particularly has a history of being tied to its logistics chain and has relied
more on firepower than on military art for its victories. So I'm truth to that. Let us assume that the
new light infantry divisions should be trained in the classic light infantry style. The army may find
it difficult to do so. Since it is a style with which we are basically unfamiliar except for our
specialty forces, particularly the Ranger Battalions. The first step, however, is for the army to
decide what it means by light infantry. Is it merely light infantry made light by the absence of
heavy equipment or is it something more like what has been described here? This is a question
which would be answered quickly for it has significant bearing on the training, strategy, and leadership
of our new light divisions. So that's kind of his intro. I think it's a good solid intro.
I think it gives us an idea. And it also, again, the reason I think this is so
and so usable is because we're talking about a smaller, weaker force going up against a bigger,
stronger force. This is maneuver warfare. This is indirect attacks. That's what this is. That's
why it applies. Yeah, I feel like this applies to more people, especially when you're in a
sort of playing it to other than something other than military stuff, where because it's so
feels like in any way that's so often we find ourselves in a situation where it's like,
I don't have the experience, I don't have the resources, I don't have the, you know,
I'm not as big as that guy or whatever, and we feel like we kind of don't have a chance,
you know, because they're just so far ahead of us in that way. So it's like, oh, no one has a chance,
you know, they're like, I'm an apoli and whatever way, you know. But it's not the case, you know?
It's true. And you know, it's interesting from a business perspective. So I work with all different
industries, right? But one day I'll be talking to a client who is the small startup, you know,
400 employees on the growth pattern, they're making things happen, but they still can't.
They still have some disadvantages against the big boys, right? And so I'll be talking to them about,
okay, here's what we need to do. You need to work as, you know, you work on your mobility,
how can we mend out maneuver the enemy like all those things? The next day or even the next hour,
I'll be talking to one of the big companies that has all these little elements out there,
these small startups that are trying to snatch business share, what are we going to do to
immobilize those small. So I actually end up teaching both insurgency and counter insurgency,
depending on the client. And what's good is that I, since I, since I, I'm familiar with how each
one of those components needs to win. So I can help them counter what's going on. So it boils
down to execution too. The boils down to execution, can you actually do what I'm talking about?
Yeah, because if you can't come up with a flexible plan or you can come up with a flexible plan,
but you don't have the leadership to actually make it happen, you're, did you're not going to make it happen?
Yeah, that's so true. So even like, they like, he talked about the mindset early on,
the mindset that we're looking to change direction. We're looking to be creative, like, it's
quick, you know, quick, unlike, you know, let's face it, the bigger a, I don't know, I'm thinking
of a company, by the way. But if like the bigger the company is the more it seems like, hey,
you better have your protocols in place that we all follow. Otherwise, the thinking, you know,
an organized, so it's like, they had kind of no choice, but to be a little bit more rigid in that way.
Rigid bureaucratic, very stable, very difficult to change. So what does that mean? That means
when you're a small company, you're like, oh, you client needs this. Guess what? We can do that
for you. Contraderant Uncle's shift how we do things for you. Yeah. The big companies, we don't
actually do that. Yeah, let me put you on hold. You can, you can, you can, you will, you will give
you the system that we use and you can use the system we use. The small clients like, well,
adapt our system. No factor. Let's do it. Shoot it. Don't get them on customer service. But
you go to a big company customer service. They're going to be outsourcing the reading scripts,
like all this stuff, because they kind of got in a, in a big way where it's like, hey,
we need everyone to give the same quote unquote quality customer service. Like, we need, you know,
you got to know all this stuff about our big, longstanding company. You know, to help these people.
So you better be educated. Right. So good example. Big company, maybe they, they know that they're
going to lose out on customer service, because the small company can can adapt quicker and make
adjustments. That means the big company needs to invest more in that area. And maybe they need
to hire some experts, and maybe they need to dump some money into, you know, computer,
help where I can actually log into your computer and I can help if we're talking about it's
software. Right. I can, well, you know, no problem. Mr. Charles, let's say what, if you type in this
code word, I'll get into your computer right now and I can get that fixed for you, right? You want to
put money. So you know where your weaknesses are. You identify your weaknesses and then you
fix them. And if you're the small guy, you know where the enemies weaknesses are. The big
guys weaknesses are and you exploit those. You start making fun of them. Start capitalizing on them.
Which you got to be careful, because if I start if you're the big guy and I start making fun of
your customer service, you could, you're, you're, you're, you're, you'll dump a bunch of money in
customer service also and you start beat me there. So I got to be careful. I don't want to provoke
the big guy. Yeah. Maybe I just want to stay under the radar and and keep taking customers from you
and you don't really know why. It's because I respond to every single customer service issue,
you know, with a team that's going to talk directly within three minutes. That's a very, uh,
that's very significant concept staying under the radio radar. I think it's underrated to
because the even just as a human being it feels like you want the attention, you want the credit,
you want the recognition for this, you want to win the award, you want them and know you won or,
you know, even more scary or counterproductive is you want the enemy to know that you just did this.
Yeah. And that's more counterproductive because now you're giving away what your position is.
Yeah. You're giving away what you're doing to achieve victory and part of that goes deep because
even even if you're not like, because no, you know, like, okay, if you want the enemy to know,
right, that's like some like, hey, this may get into you. I got something against you personally.
So boom, yeah, I got you what kind of a thing, right? It's like a challenge almost kind of thing,
but even if like just everyday stuff, you know, some people, for example, they'll make
they'll start making a lot of money or something and then they'll buy jewelry or something like that.
Or something flashy, you know, or, you know, they maybe they have some online following or something
and then they want to show their nice cars and their nice cows and they want to do all this stuff, right?
Just to like show how it's like a need, I guess, you know, for recognition or whatever.
But now what you'll what you did is you provoke the giant now. You made everyone know about their
stuff. Now this giant, whatever that may be, I don't know how that translates, but it is something
where the people trying to take advantage of that, people asking you for stuff, you know, people
trying to use your XYZ that you just showed them that you have, by the way.
Volunteerly, because you needed somewhere, now they're going to try to find a way to use that
for their advantage and then it's like everybody too.
Essentially, that's the giant. There's your giant right there.
You're going to watch out for that. You've got to watch out for your ego getting you to do things
that are stupid. Yeah. Straight up. Probing the giant or whatever.
Like even in Iraq, in Ramadi, we didn't want, we tried to, we didn't want the enemy to know what was
happening. Like why are people getting shot? What's happening? You know, we don't like, oh yeah,
we're snipers, we got teams in, no, just all of a sudden they start losing guys. A lot of them.
They don't know why. It's now it's fear. And then obviously they figured out pretty quick.
Check. All right. So now we get into the, to the, to the proverves themselves, the
proverves of the light of victory. Here we go. Lighting for lighting for the operations. There
exists a light infantry attitude, which can be described in a few characteristic words,
offensiveness, initiative, surprise, improvisation and total self-reliance.
There's a part where we could just end the podcast right now, right? Because if you take those
were those concepts to the end degree, you, you know what we're talking about.
But you won't get the full impact. Light forces are undaunted by terrain. terrain is viewed
as an ally. A combat multiplier for the light infantrymen, light forces are terrain oriented.
Very little terrain is impossible to true light infantrymen. Now what I, this to me,
one thing that I was taught as a young frogman, bathroom, talking to. When there's bad weather
or there's bad terrain, that means that the enemy has to contend with it and they're not going to.
And we are. And so terrain, oh, there's horrible steep crazy hills. Cool. Yeah, that means the
enemy is not going to be on patrol up there. We will be undaunted. Light infantry does its best when
it lives on in and off the land. It must be comfortable in the bush or in rouse. If you're
going to put your arms in that life for two days. How much of that? Okay, so let's take
you, Jitsu. How much of it is Jitsu good because let's face it. If you play out like zombie
apocalypse in your head, you kind of think, hey, when it comes down to it, if I can beat people
and fights. Look, because we ran out of bullets, you know what I'm saying? Like you get to a point
where I'm going to come down to me against you. Yeah. So there's a little bit of that being able
to survive that you get from Jitsu. Yeah, actually that's a real rock, kind of form of it, you know,
where I think we actually talked about this. I think it was just me we were just talking.
Where you can have like a big group of people and then they can then you and the group can be heavily
armed and then and then have a bunch of knives and then have body armor or whatever, whatever,
right? Just all the tools and all the whatever. There's like you can lose your weapons. You can
lose your knives. You can lose your body armor or you forget it or I don't know whatever. But
at some point it's very possible that it's going to be just like you said, it's me against you.
No knives, no weapons, no whatever. Yeah, could be that way in about an hour and a half. Okay,
I understand. And then it's like then where are you? Is it night and day? You know,
are you just businesses, usual kind of kind of thing? Like, you know, I'm sorry. It could
make me go back to video games. But you know how like you go? Is it game called Zanik? Actually,
I feel like I'm brought this up before where if you get like this weapon, is this the super
spreader? No, yeah, that one too. Yeah, on contra when you get the spreader, you're like
bone-bomb and you can win. Oh, it's called the spreader. I call it the super spreader because this
is grown up. Yeah. But once you die and lose that weapon and you go back to just what your
issued in the video game, which is what we call the P shooter, you got to be good with that thing.
And if you're not, you're just going to game over. That's a be comfortable in the bush.
Yeah. It's true. Good intelligence is vital to light infantry, intelligence obtained by the
light infantry from every source from the national level to the use of local inhabitants,
reconnaissance and petroleum. Yeah, gathering information. Absolutely. Conventional tactics are
no good for light forces. You know, I we'd have to dig down and see what you're actually talking
about when you're talking about conventional tactics. I'm not going to, I'm not going to bless
that one on the spot. I get it. Right. You can't plan sometimes, for instance, conventional
forces will plan for a certain number of casualties for a certain operation. Like you're just
going to take these casualties. You get into light infantry smaller units. That can be a real
problem. You can't just accept casualties. For example, historically light infantry operations
are mounted at battalion level and lower light infantry operations are highly dependent on squad
platoon and company level actions. Got it. Light forces need high quality communications to coordinate
decentralized efforts into a coherent whole. Okay. So this article is written 40, 50 years ago.
Something like that. And it's just interesting to me. Communications of all kinds are unreliable.
Radios, they're all unreliable in a combat zone. And if you don't have coordination measures
in effect that don't rely on radio communications, you can count on there to be problems.
And I'll tell you, even as our, as our, as our communication capabilities get better,
when you start talking about fighting against near peer adversaries, meaning big giant
countries like ours that have big giant technological equipment like we have. You can't,
you get to a point where you can't use radios because they have something called defin capability.
If you've heard of that direction finding capability. So if you key up your radio, they know
your yard. Your radio gives off radio waves. And there are ways that radio, those radio waves
can be detected and they can pinpoint your location. So you have to be able to operate with
minimal, minimal communications. So I don't like this, this particular one says light forces need
high quality communications to coordinate decentralized efforts into a coherent whole. Actually,
I don't, I don't like that. When I tell you this is what we're doing, this is why we're doing it.
I give you the commanders intent. I want you to be able to go and I don't need to talk to you again.
And by the way, you'll see whatever other unit needed to do something coordinate with you,
you're going to know what's happening. By what's happening? You're going to see an explosion.
You're like, oh, life's still tuned. Just started their breads. That means I can go. Like,
you're, you're seeing them saying, you need to be able to coordinate things. You can't be reliant
on radios. You can't. There was probably a year, there's probably a five, five-year time period,
where you where the radios were good and the enemy direction-finding capability wasn't quite
there yet. But that period's over. Do to a general shortage of combat support light forces must
do an excellent job of combining arms when they have a chance. Yes, absolutely. You got to be
able to work with the other units that can support you. You got to be able to do a light infantry
forces must be masters of improvisation, familiar with all kinds of weapons, vehicles, landing craft,
and so forth. Yes, light infantry forces make use of whatever is at hand to improve their combat
capability. Absolutely. Native, irregular forces are often used in support of light infantry.
Yes, what does that mean? That means you have to go build relationships with the local populist. That's
what that means. In order to do that, you got to know that that's what you need to do. Because
18-year-old kids with machine guns are focused on building relationships. They're not. They go
into a country. They have a machine gun. They have grenades and if what they think they're
going to do is hawk grenades and shoot machine guns. So you need to educate them and make sure that they
understand how the local populist is going to play a role in giving you support.
Light infantry must remain flexible in mind and action capable of reacting quickly.
Already talked about flexible, plants, flexible, mind. When a light infantryman rises from his
sleep, he's ready to fight. I like that. Light infantryman rely on camouflage. Why is that?
Because we don't want to give away our position. We don't want to advertise what we're doing.
We don't want to advertise how we're beating the competition. We want to have camouflage.
Against heavy enemy forces, the light infantry always requires a great deal of augmentation. Cool.
You've got to face the reality that you may not have the resources that are needed to defeat
bigger stronger enemy. You have to be able to say that. So if you're, that's why there's a lot of
industries right now where you can get help inside your small business. You can get IT support.
You can get personnel support. You can get engineering support. You need all this kind of support.
And you've got to recognize when you need to utilize some of that other support.
You might not necessarily want to build it out. Had this conversation,
life was just telling me this, when we were starting EF online.
And we started talking about building this and building that. And I said, hey,
we don't want to become a software company. And he was like, check.
Because it's better to hire someone that does that. That's what they do. I don't want to
have a bunch of software engineers and programmers and IT. So I don't want to, I don't want to have all that.
That's a different business. We don't want to be an eye, we don't want to be a software company.
We want to be a leadership training company. Cool. And he was, he was like, got it.
Because we had started because it's one of those mission creep things, right? We were like,
you're like, if we just add this, we'd spilled that and all of a sudden, you got a proprietary
system that you got to maintain and hire more people. We're not looking to do that. We why?
We think light infantry. And what you need to do is use augmentation if needed.
Light infantry men must be able to climb crawl, swim, ski, snow shoe,
repel, stock, run and hide. Obviously, echo this is written before snowboarding. Yes,
because I know you're over there thinking, those of you that don't know, echo's now a snowboarder.
Isn't it interesting to actually talk about the fact that you got to have all these different
ways of getting around by using your own energy? Light infantry must be able, marksman,
proficient in the use and maintenance of many weapons, light forces rely on pioneer skills at
all level, beginning with the squad to properly exploit terrain, pioneer skills. Does that mean you
have a Ralph's card? Nobody knows where everything is. I don't say. As you get lost these foreign
stores, you know, can be hostile. Do you remember driving around? Yeah, you do. Remember no GPS is just so
to give it. It's given now. Yeah, to give it. How did you get around before GPS to your
member off-top yet? Like you're in a new spot or you're going to a new spot kind of far away.
You brought a map? No, you get a map. Yeah. Well, I guess if I was going somewhere where there wasn't
going to be a way to live off the land and go to this convenience store and buy a map. Sure,
but I was taking my daughter to Coronado, like a little while ago. And so Coronado is where I
worked for 20 whatever years. And what I live now a few miles from Coronado. And we get in the car
and I start pulling out my daughter's like doing and putting the GPS. Yeah.
I'm like, are you serious? Are you serious right now? And she says, yeah, why?
I don't go. It's Coronado. I worked there for 20 freaking years. Yeah. And she's like, well, I didn't,
I don't know. Yeah. But that's, but that's her mentality is when you get in a car, you're going somewhere.
You GPS? Uh, yeah. Because she's just a young man. Yeah. Yeah. That's crazy.
Uh, well, because I had the exact same incident. Wasn't Coronado was downtown. And I
worked downtown for a number of years and go down there, whatever. So I don't downtown.
Brian, oh, downtown, like back on my hand. Yeah. And we're going in the same thing.
She puts it in Sarah. Sir. Yeah, puts it in the or is like, she puts it in her GPS and her phone
and starts rattling off the directions as if I don't know, you know, this man, man of the world doesn't
know, um, you know, how to get to the place we're going to downtown my hood, whatever. Um, so yeah,
I don't need that GPS, but the thing is, Sarah's not as young as you're not. Obviously, but it
does start to become like a habit, you know, I mean, just so happened, I knew my way around. I think
if I didn't know my way around, see, I same thing automatic itself. Like I don't even think twice
about it. Like in back in the day, I used to go, um, you know, to places or whatever. And I remember going
in the either the white pages of the yellow pages or whatever they'd have the map in the front of it.
And then I'd write down directions. That's it. I lost before two, a couple times, but it's not
not quite as effective as the. Yeah. I wonder what's how much that skill is just being lost now.
I'm sure it feels like it's gone straight up gone. You can find one or two guys and we could be
real negative about that. Oh, we could also be well, what skills have people now garnered because
they don't have to worry about that skill anymore. Yeah. Not sure. The next one, the pertinent
range or standards of land navigation are a must for light forces. Got nowhere you're going. Got
nowhere you are. Yeah. Light infantry rarely uses roads or trails. What does that mean? How's that
apply? I'll tell you to apply. You find new ways of doing things. And just because there's a beaten
path doesn't mean you should necessarily take it. Doesn't mean you can't take it. But you should
think, is there a better way to get this done? Light infantry forces, left in combat theaters for
long, inevitably become heavier due to the acquisition of heavier weapons plus increased logistics
structure. What does that mean? Keep moving. Keep moving. The minute you settle down,
now you're going to start to grow in ways that aren't necessarily beneficial.
Light infantry appreciates heavy fire support when it is available, but it's not dependent on it.
Physical conditioning and mental strength are absolute musts across the board.
Light forces, this goes into the next section, which is called the offense.
Light forces may be deployed at the operational level of war, but they always fight at the
tactical level. Light forces think at the tactical level. And okay there's another one I'm like,
I got a press pause on that one. I'm not blessing fully. Okay, except for
Cavia, I guess Cavia. Light forces think at the tactical level, but you better
understand the strategic goal. You have to understand why you're doing what you're doing.
Otherwise, you can't think at the tactical level. Because if I say, all right, Echo, we want to
take out that building. And you say, cool, we got it. And you get in there and there's a little
bit of resistance. So you, you know, blow it up. And then I say, actually strategically, we're trying
to keep the infrastructure in place here. And you're like, oh, I might have wanted that. Let me know that.
So thinking tactical is cool, it better be nested inside the strategic goals.
Does your team? Where's your team at, by the way? And your business, in your company,
in your family, where's their head at? Do they understand the tactical goals that you're going
for? Do they understand, are those tactical goals nested inside what we're trying to do strategically?
Good question. Two light infantry loves the night. Light forces fight at night and hide during the
day. What, what, how does it? How does that apply? I'll tell you how you need to understand where
you're at at an advantage. That's what that's saying. Look, night, day, whatever. We're not,
we're not transferring this. You know, you're not going to be, hey, our, you know, our construction
company is going to do better at night. That's not what we're saying. What you say is, hey,
there's an area of construction that we're good at. We're really good at high end custom homes
or we're really good at multiple massive track homes that we just repeat the same. You're going
to be fine. What you're good at? And you're going to exploit that. You're going to start focusing
on that area. You're going to hide from the areas we're going to get beat. Light infantry attacks
violently and suddenly on two or more axes, seeking, flanks and rear of the enemy. Right, we're
not going toe to toe. We're not, this is an apugelistic endeavor where we stand here and punch each
other. We maneuver. We get the flanks. This is, you can see you how all this stuff just fits right
into my brain. This is fits right into my brain. Attacks are conducted fiercely and tenaciously
against enemy weaknesses, not strength, not the enemy strengths. That's maneuver warfare.
maneuver warfare. We maneuver to wear the enemy as week. That's jujitsu. We put my deadlift power,
which is my hips and my back against echoes curling power, which is an arm lock. And despite
your relatively powerful curling capabilities, done compared to my deadlift and the arm lock will win.
Light forces attack stripped for action. So when you're in the field, you can be end up
carrying a lot of equipment. When you go on the attack, they're saying here, don't carry that
equipment with you into the attack. What this is, what this is is prioritize and execute. Look,
we carried all this weight in. Now we need to focus on the biggest problem we've got, which is
doing this assault. Take off your gear, leave your water behind, not all that leave a bulk of your
water behind. Leave your cold weather gear. Leave that stuff behind. We're going on an assault.
We're going to be light. It's going to take us an hour and we're going to win. That doesn't mean you
leave everything. Light infantry creates a shock effect by the suddenness and fierceness of their attacks.
Check. Attacks are closely synchronized, which is fine. Again, you have to coordinate things.
So that perfect synchronicity is not a requirement for success because perfect synchronicity is
likely not going to happen. If you don't put some fudge in your schedule for the manufacturing
of your new item, the chances that every piece of that item that your manufacturing comes out
exactly as desired and then fits perfectly with the rest of the pieces that you've
manufactured. The chances of that happening are very small. So if you put everything
reliant on perfect synchronization, you're dumb. We don't want to do that.
Can are there situations where you do need to do that? Sure. You're launching a freaking
rocket in the space. You know what I mean? So you've got NASA. You've got all these people
focused on one thing that literally cannot have any issues. So there's all these checks and balances
the whole way through and you have actually get a very, very, very high probability of success.
However, it's still not perfect. And if you tried to keep going until everything was perfect,
you wouldn't ever launch a rocket because you can't get everything completely square in a way.
So if you're not at risk of losing a $500 billion or whatever trillion dollar rocket
and you what you're trying to do is get a get something to market. You need to not rely on
perfect synchronization. Things won't be perfectly synchronized. You need to be okay with that.
If you have a propensity to be super-animal-retensive about every little thing,
it's going to be hard for you to be in a leadership position without letting some of that go.
You have to be like, no, you know, it's pretty close. There's some people that cannot say that.
There's some people that cannot say, that's pretty close. That'll work.
Yeah, isn't that one of the main initial challenges of becoming like, uh, what do you call us?
We've got to start delegating when you have a growth situation or whatever. Like, that's the main one.
I would say I'm absolutely right. Or it's one of the main ones. Yeah. Or you can't like,
can't let it go. I would buy this perfectly. Cool. But you have 14 other things you need to
focus on. Yeah. Get a grip. Light infantry always. And that is italicized in the text.
When you're on an English major, they call things the text. Like,
are you referring to the text? Yeah. What's the difference between the text and the copy?
Uh, copies what they say in, uh, in, um, I think that's more of like a marketing word.
Marketing though. Like, hey, did you can you check the copy on this latest thing?
So those parts. So it's like the purpose of what has been written. That kind of dictates
whether you call it the text or the text. Yeah. But the English, you know, professors. Yeah.
I think it's an elevated way of speaking. Because they don't want to say,
what would you think of this book? Right? That's what my human would say.
They say, well, I'm a person with that. They say, don't you give me some food back on on this text?
They're like, well, man. Right? They're getting paid money. That's what they can't just call it a book.
I know. That's why we're reporting the other way. Did you read the play?
What do you think of that play? No, it's how to, was the impact of that text on you? Come on.
Yeah. It's not even necessary. Sometimes. Then again, I'm sure there's a real
reason, you know. No, you're right. You're right. There is a reason. And if we,
where I'm sure we're going to get some English professor that's going to drop the hammer of
grammar on us. Yeah. You don't say, well, text actually refers to blah, blah. Yeah. That's one of
those things where it could be where you know how like there was a reason back in the day where
the reason was like significant. And you could get it. You could jam it up if you didn't like this
day or distinguish whatever. And then, but so much has happened since then. And then, you know, the
classic, you know, guys or whatever they're like holding on to it saying like, no, it is
important and all the stuff is like, no, it's not because I know exactly you're talking about
still. But you know what I love about this particular case? Guess what a text now means. I
said you are four one text. That's my kids text each other. Yeah. And they, they got funny text.
Maya. So you know how, I don't know my son when he texts, there's you know how, well, I have an
iPhone and it has an auto correct, right? So it automatically capitalizes letters, automatically
puts periods. And that's how that's this. That's the default setting. I'm pretty sure of the phone, right?
Thanks. He must have manually goes in there and removes those. So everything he writes is just no
no corrections, no capitalization and no punctuation of any kind. It's just words. It's just
uncapitalized words. And then my kids were telling me, if you put a period, if you, if you text
me echo when you're like, hey, can you make it to dinner tonight? And I write no period, the period's
kind of like aggressive. Yeah. Right. I don't forget if you told me that. Oh, man. Yeah, that's crazy.
How how this whole like, we'll say for like, my culture texting culture and takes on this whole,
like these rules and etiquette and all this and that's crazy. It's like if if something's in all
cat, well, I guess if it was in all caps, it'd be more of an exclamation, right? Even I think all
caps is like all caps is straight up almost like fighting words, right? If I'm all capping you,
oh yeah. It's where it's going. But that's like carry over from even before text messaging went.
The all caps is like an exclamation. That was your jam in the beginning, all caps?
What, what did I all get? When you started texting? Oh, like when I started texting you? Yeah. Well,
you didn't text everyone like that. It was just me. You didn't really know. You saw all these
texts in all caps. Like you just thought that that was just more dope. Well, that's funny. You know,
it's funny. I write in all caps. You know, it was like that writes in all caps. So I guess for me,
it would just look normal. Yep. Yeah. That makes sense. Yeah. You know, like some people
though, right? And I used to do this. I went through fees all caps. But the capitals were just a little bit bigger
with bigger figures. Yeah. I will do that depending on the scenario. And I'll give you an example.
When I write the path, that tea is a little bit bigger than the peas a little bit bigger.
Gotcha. Because we're acknowledging the capitalization. Actually, now I think about it. You and I are very,
very aware of capitalization of letters in text. Yeah. Well, yeah. They tell a story.
They tell stories. They need something. Yeah. And then there's a difference between font and
typeface. I'm unfamiliar. I don't know what it is. So you brought up something you have no,
no, no, we're talking about text. Like, okay. So text back in the days, like the text,
and now it morphed probably a couple of times into different things. And then now,
so tell me there's a difference between font and typeface. Yeah. That's another example of like
these things that might have had a difference at some point. But I don't know what it is. Like font.
Like what is font? You don't know what font is. I think I do. Okay. Font is just the
letters that are used to, it's the design of the letters. Yeah. Actually, it was kind of a letter.
Yeah. And then typeface. That's what apparently typeface is. The design of the letters. I don't
know if there's any difference between these two. Yeah, man. So typeface is the elevated expression.
I think. I think so. Check. All right. Back to this italicized word. Light infantry always
relies on surprise achieved through stealth, deception, silence, and maneuver on foot. I just
will question mark next to like always. Always. We want to be careful about saying always.
But I wanted to reflect the text here itself. Light infantry always seek to retain the initiative.
Now that one, the always, which in this case isn't italicized, I agree with. Do you ever want
to give up the initiative? No, you don't. You always want to maintain the initiative. I'm
scrambling my brain trying to think of a situation where you know what? I don't think I want the
initiative right now. I can't think of one. I can't think of one. Light forces practice
rigorous fire discipline, but when necessary, they deliver intense fires on short duration to
over and well the enemy. Check. Light infantry turns the enemy's weapons against him.
Awesome. Which is, and what's awesome about that is when you've got, what you've got a competitor
that is utilizing something. They're utilizing something. They're utilizing a, some piece of marketing.
They're utilizing some attack on your clients. They're utilizing something. You can't just say,
oh no, that piece of marketing really hurts us. No, you need to look at that. How can we turn
that piece of marketing against them? Light infantry forces conduct relentless pursuit of
enemy light forces and irregular forces to destroy them in detail. Relentless pursuit of enemy
light forces. Light infantry offensive operations are characterized by a high degree of decentralization.
Yes, which is contrary to saying, I better have radio to coordinate every single movement with you.
That's centralized. Light infantry patrols relentlessly and aggressively ambushes the enemy.
Light infantry sometimes double times into battle. Think about that. You're like, hey, we're running.
We're running. That's an interesting thing. I'm concerned. I'm a little bit concerned.
If I have to run to get to the battle, I'm a little bit concerned about what I'm doing.
Because I'm running, I feel like I'm late. If I have to run to battle, I feel like I'm late.
It seems like that's like a flex move as well. Conquer. Yeah. It's sort of like, will run.
I'm not sure if that's a smartest thing. I'm running. That means I'm late and now I'm tired when I show up.
Yeah, a little bit more. I mean, I'm not saying you can't function. I'm saying you're a little
more tired than you would have been. Do we get a cool flex, right? Do we get to say,
we'll run? Yeah. We'll run. It could have been, it could be, I guess, under certain circumstances,
be like a psychological warfare situation. Because in football, that's what was, where it's like
hustle off the field, hustle on the field, right? When you think about, okay, there might be a
time saving element to that for sure. But, Brad, if I'm really not hustling on and off the field,
I got more energy for the play. I'll tell you what, when you run, when, like, you see,
kids wrestling and one kid runs, like they go out of bounds, one kid runs back, runs back,
meet, you know, toll on the line, ready. And the other kids, 100, go with psychological warfare.
Yeah, psychological warfare. Maybe that's why they're, maybe I think, right, I think it might be
in the parlance of our time. A little flex. Light infantry tracks, listens,
locates, cuts off raids, and ambushes the enemy. Isn't that weird to think about? When you're,
when you're competing against someone, you actually should think you should be tracking,
listening, locating, cut off, raiding and ambushing them. Think about, the thing that I like about
that is your focus on them. The thing I don't like about it is your focus on them. Right? There's
a little dichotomy there. We can't be focused so much on what the other guy's doing. We need to be
doing something. The enemy never knows where the light infantry is or when he will attack.
Check. Don't give away your position for the 50 millionth time. I'm not going to,
when Eko has a different viewpoint than me, I don't start off by telling him my viewpoint and
explaining why my viewpoint is better. I don't, I actually ask more questions about your viewpoint
and trying to understand your viewpoint and get your viewpoint till I actually know exactly where it is
before I review my position.
Standing operating procedures are used widely by light forces for quick silent action. Yes,
standard operating procedures. For silent action, I mean, you don't have to talk. We know what's
going to happen. Next one, rehearsals, training, pre-combat briefings and sharing of information
to the lowest levels are more common among light forces. This is the cornerstone of decentralized command.
rehearsal is training, pre-combat briefings, all that stuff. The infiltration of large units
of light infantry is possible in close terrain and is necessary for success in major operations.
Under these conditions, light forces infiltrate to attack the rear, to establish blocking positions,
and to create obstacles in the path of a retreating enemy.
Yeah, check. What that means is we're moving into good positions.
And we're doing it in a clandestine manner so the enemy doesn't know that what we're doing.
And the last one for offense is hand-to-hand combat is a required skill for the light infantry.
Affirmative. Man, the propagation of hand-to-hand combat right now
in the last sense of UFC started is insane. Yeah. It's insane. Yeah. Yep, it is. I mean, even in
that community, it's insane. Not to mention like when you explore the spectrum of the guy who
doesn't know anything versus the guy, he's the guy who knows a lot. Even within the people of
who knows it's so much variety. It's so vast, you know. It is insane evolution.
And since 1993, it's crazy. The evolution since 1993. Since the ultimate fighting championship,
the evolution of combat sports is almost incomprehensible. Yeah. Because before then,
it's kind of like people didn't really have a valid stable, we'll say, a reliable foundation
of fighting. And then kind of you just to kind of essentially provide it that. And everyone's
are learning it. So what does it look like? This is kind of the answer. The answer to this question is
what you're talking about. Like what does it look like when everyone knows the foundation? I
imagine we can build on it. Yeah. Yeah. And I guess there's other thing. I mean, if you look at
basketball, right? I mean, basketball now is different than it was in 1954. It's a different game.
I mean, we're talking. It's a different game. But I think that's less obviously, I think mixed
martial arts is might be the most, but skateboarding. You seen what a kid will do on skateboard
right now? Yeah. It's my debugging. Surfing. I mean, surfing is nuts. Yeah. It's nuts.
What guys are doing from a technical level, from a technical blasting heirs. Like what?
But not only that blasting 360, all the aires where they're not even, they're not touching
their board, but they're going up and doing a 360 in the air and landing it. If you brought an
old school surfer from 1962, yeah. And if you were to bring a, if you were to bring a 1962
surfer and say, hey, if you go back to 1962 instead, do you think that a surfer will be able to launch
off the wave into the air? Turn 360 degrees without touching his board and land. Does that sound
possible? Do you know what I mean? Does that sound? Does that actually sound possible?
It doesn't, it's kind of hard to, it's kind of hard to comprehend that that could be an actual thing.
Yeah. You know, they probably would be, what do you mean not touch the board? Meaning not grab that
board. They didn't even understand grabbing the board. Like you wouldn't probably had to say that
part. Like how are you going to get a board out of the water? First of all, their board weighs
42 pounds made a red wood. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks a lot. So there's these, like you said, there's a
foundation. Once this foundation gets created, you get to build on it. And what's, that's what's
so crazy. I've been talking about this on the debrief a little bit. I've been talking about
an EF online leadership. There's a base there, but people just ignore it. People think,
well, they, they don't understand that leadership is a skill. Just like just like surfing,
just like skateboarding, just like playing basketball. It's a skill. And if you learn,
then you, if you pick up a book and you read, you'll learn about it and you go, oh, I can use these
moves and people don't do that. People don't understand why it's very difficult for people
to understand that leadership is a skill. Even though they go, that guy's a great leader.
They think that that person was just blowing that way. They don't think what they're actually doing.
I mean, when I was running the training, and I got to watch, that's what made it. So
I'm like, oh, that guy's not doing what that other guy did. And that's why they're falling apart
right now. Got it. Check. Next section is called The Defense. Light forces can
defend, but they are more suited to the offense. Defense can immobilize the light infantry
consumed to much ammunition and develop rigidity of mind. These are the dangers of the defense
for light infantry. So, you know, we're, we're not feeling like we're, we're going to focus on that.
Light forces must be able to disappear into the ground rapidly for defense. Light infantry
men must be good diggers and fast. Light infantry men must be masters of fortifications.
It seems like we're focusing a lot to be going on master of fortification if that's not something
we really want to be doing. Light forces defend on the reverse slope. I like that one because
that's using the terrain to defend. Spoiling attacks are a frequent tactic of light forces.
Normally light forces are ill-armed to defend against armored vehicles even in close terrain.
This is a very important one. Why? Because it is acknowledging one of our weaknesses.
It's acknowledging one of our weaknesses. So, here we are. We have this tough mentality. What is it?
The never say die mentality. We adapt. We overcome and we have that mindset. And we're in a
light infantry platoon. We're out there and all of a sudden we see armored vehicles coming.
And we go, you know what? Adapt to overcome. We can we can do this. And what this is saying is actually no.
There's actually no. We are ill-armed. So now we see armored vehicles coming. We say,
you know what, hey, we need a bag out of here. We need to get in a serious defense position.
Or we need a hide so we don't get seen. So, as a leader, you need to recognize what your
weaknesses are. And then you need to actually explain those to the team. Hey, this is not a fight we
want to get into. Hey, this other, this other manufacturer wants to go toe to toe to us on making this
highly regulated item. We are not good at making highly regulated items. We don't want to get in that fight.
Now, everybody knows that. Hey, you want to spend a bunch of money on a bunch of equipment that
costs a lot. And then you get scrutinized over the production that you're making. That's not what the
game would. And you go ahead and have that game. So you need to understand what your weaknesses
are and then you need to propagate those to the team. Light infantry counter attacks immediately to
retake lost key terrain or to hit the enemy's rear or flank while he is attacking. This is what I
like about this is this is a mindset. This is a standard operating procedure. When we get attacked
if we start to lose to if we lose terrain, just everybody know that we're coming back. We're going to
immediately retake. That's what we're doing. The light infantryman is invisible and silent in the
defense by day or by night. Good way to do defense. Not be seen. Logistical support,
true light infantry is not tied to a supply line light infantryman. Distain logistics. That's so strong.
That's so strong. As an important planning factor, they can always quote, make do.
Distain's a strong word. Distain's a strong word. Yeah, in a way, doesn't that kind of
makes it seem like you're painting yourself in a corner. You know, we're anti this almost. Yeah.
Yeah. And I get it. I get it because it's because logistics becomes mission creep. Meaning,
hey, look, we just, you know what, we're going to need water. And we're going to need water.
Buffalo's, you know, one of Buffalo's big tanks of water. What any water Buffalo's?
And that means we're going to need vehicles to tell the water buffalo's. And that means we're
need fuel for those vehicles. And that means we're going to need to maintenance crew for those vehicles.
And that means we're going to need to feed the maintenance crew. You see where this is going.
Yeah. Right. So that's why I think we need to be careful when we open the door to large logistics,
because once we open the door, the freaking party gets crashed. And now all of a sudden, we got, you know,
the cops get called. Yeah. So we've got to be careful on that in that regard.
Light forces can operate separated from their lines of communications by depending on enemy and
indigenous supplies. Cool. Light infantrymen can live off the land like echo Charles can.
I can't wait. I can't wait to see the governments on this one. But we could do some really
funny stuff with you, you know, lost an LA. What's he going to do? Okay, motel eight.
It looks like a police. I think I found. I think I found a location from the layout for the night.
What the? Yeah.
Light forces make maximum use of the indigenous population for bearers, handbladers,
soldiers, loaders, and so forth. Look, this goes back to us earlier, forming relationship with the
local populace. You need to make sure you emphasize that with the team. Otherwise, what do you have?
You have young men with machine guns and grenades. And that's what they joined the military to do
in most cases. So some people came in with more idealistic visions than that, which is great.
God bless. But a lot of 18-year-old young men that joined the military
didn't join for those idealistic reasons. So if we don't get them on board with the
treating the indigenous population with respect and explaining how that indigenous population
can help us succeed in our mission and explain that we are actually there to support the
indigenous population. If we don't do those things as leaders, we're going to end up screwing things up.
Light infantry frequently resupplies at night. The use of helicopters and phobias craft
and like craft is vital to the resupplies of light infantry.
The main thing is that the military improvisation is a constant feature of light infantry logistics.
I'll say this about improvisation. You can train for improvisation.
And the way you train people to improvise is by making them improvise. That's what you do.
You can't, and what makes it hard is training by its nature is a structured thing. I'm
going to set up some training for you. Echo trials. Here's what we're going to do.
You're going to start in the mount. You're going to go for a walk. You're going to start here.
So there's a structure to it. And we can go through that structure and I told you what move you're
going to do and you're going to drill that move. So what I need to do is put you in situations
where there is no move. Hey, get on your back, put your left leg over your right elbow,
and your partner is going to go and grab your other ankle. Ready, go. You have to improvise.
Get out of there. You can actually start to learn to improvise better. So we need to do that when we train
subordinate leadership when we train our teams. We need to put them in situations that they
actually have to improvise because there's methodologies and thought processes that fall into
better improvisation improvisation. If you never think about it and you throw your team into such
situation and guess what? You throw your team into any real situation. They're going to have to improvise.
That plan is not going to be perfect. And if you don't train them to improvise, they're not going to be
able to do it. Technology. Next section, weapons used by light forces must not impose a logistical
burden. Cool. If equipment cannot be man packed or muel slash donkey pack, the light infantry
generally has little use for it. Cool. We're trying to stay light. Light. The helicopter is
almost revolutionary and it's effects on light force, mobility and logistical support. Check.
The delivery of the light infantrymen into the area of operations has changed over time,
but actions on the ground have changed little check. Historically,
advantages in technology have not been the deciding factor in light infantry operations. This
is important. So we can't just rely on the fancy new equipment that we've got obviously,
that's not going to make the difference. It's not going to make the critical difference. It
might have a difference. It might make an impact. But historically, technology is not going to
be the deciding factor. Next section is called political arena. Political action is often
needed to support the light infantry operations. Cool. You know what that means? Play the game.
Grab play the game. Light infantry profits from a psychological operations edge
and must be prepared to use this advantage. All kinds of psychological things,
all these, the shock that we're talking about, the surprise that we're talking about.
Those things are a psychological advantage. And we need to be able to exploit those psychological
advantages. Utilize them. Cooperation between a light infantry security force and the local
police and intelligent structure is essential to success. What does that mean? Build relationships.
The hearts and minds roll in low intensity conflict is one to which the light infantry
normally is very sensitive. I would say that the light infantry should be very sensitive to it.
But I also think if we as leaders don't explain to the team the importance of the quote
hearts and minds, then we will not have them as sensitive as they should be. I don't think there's a
predisposed mindset that leans towards people that join the military thinking hearts and minds.
Thank you. Have to account for the fact that there's a decent chance they're not thinking
about the hearts and minds. The last section is leadership. Light infantry leaders are generally
of higher quality than conventional infantry leaders. I don't agree with that. I give that one
on the down vote. I worked with conventional infantry leaders and they're freaking awesome. I've
worked with light infantry leaders and they're also awesome. I don't think they're generally
of a higher quality. Light infantry leader traits are imagination. Isn't that funny the first
one imagination? The next one flexibility? The next one hardiness? The next one
endurance, confidence, improvisation, discipline, technical expertise, perseverance, and so forth.
Can we or do say so forth? Because you listed one two three four five six seven eight nine
ten. It's like more. Yeah, but imagination and flexibility. That is not what people think of when
they think of military leaders. They don't think of imagination and flexibility. They actually
think of the opposite. Regided. Yeah, can you say that too right? Where? Or actually it might
have been another book where creativity was one of the attributes of the leader or whatever.
And you wouldn't really think that you wouldn't think creativity. It's more like, I don't know,
maybe the first thing that comes to mind maybe for a normal person would be, I don't know, authority
years. You know, something a little bit more free. Yeah. Right. And I talk about discipline all the
time, but this one's only good if it's complemented by imagination and flexibility.
Light leaders lead from the front. Consequently, they suffer a higher ratio of casualties than
normal. I don't think this is something that we're super trying to make a proverb. Right?
I get lead from the front. Absolutely. But are we are we actually leading from the front to a point
where we're a higher level of casualty as a leader? I'm not going to, I'm going to say, if I'm
talking to my leaders, I'm going to say, listen, you lead from the front and you also position yourself
to where you can continue to lead without becoming casualty. Leadership is the most important thing
on the battlefield. For losing leaders, we are losing the most important thing on the battlefield.
I get it. I get the attitude, but we have to make sure we're smart about it.
Junior officers and noncommissioned officers must possess skills above and beyond those of regular
infantry. The skills include demolitions, artillery calls for fire, the use of closer support
and familiarity with foreign weapons and foreign languages. Fair enough. Fair enough. That comes
down to all those things, all those things are just training. So when you're in light infantry units,
you should have the opportunity for more training. You can get some of these skills. Teamworked
and confidence in each other are vital to light infantry operations. Teamwork and confidence in each
other. That is a huge piece of teamwork. I call this trust as opposed to confidence in each other.
That's what bonds a team together. I trust you. You trust me. You trust that I'll be there
if you need me. I trust that you'll be there if I need you. And if I can trust that you're
going to be there if I need you, I'm more apt to go out and make something happen because I know
you got my back. Here's a good one. Courage without teamwork is of little value.
Makes sense. They didn't say it's of no value, but if I don't have some teamwork back in
me up when I do something courageous, not what we're looking for. We need teamwork.
Moral, a spree and spiritual power are of high value to light infantry operations.
What is a spree? A spree to court. It's like the bond, the bond that we have.
So there's not much clarification on spiritual power. I'm going to go out
on a limb and say that the team has to believe in what they're doing. If you're going to be
successful, if the team doesn't believe in what they're doing, it's going to be a problem.
Because we are not willing to make sacrifices for things we don't believe in.
Light infantry men usually leave no casualties on the battlefield. I like that.
It could be a little bit stronger than usually. Almost never.
And that's different from the army saying of leave no man behind and actually that's all
services say that. And that's always the goal. But you also have to make a call sometimes.
And that might be, hey, we need to back off right now. We need to come back and reattach this
position later. Because right now if we keep going to try and recover this individual,
we're all gonna die.
Light infantry men look to their leaders at 4 a clear voice for clear voice instructions and
thrive on the motivation of visually observing their leaders in action.
Cool.
Necessary sometimes. Clear voice instructions absolutely. Sometimes the team
actually has to see what you're doing and they will take action based on your performance.
They will be inspired and motivated by seeing up. Looks like we're going
in the last one, a light infantry leader can do everything a soldier can do and more.
Now listen, on that one, you're not going to be able to do a hundred percent of what your
frontline troops can do. And you definitely might not be able, you certainly might not be able
to do more. Right? You've snipers gonna be better at shooting with you. The radio man's gonna
do more about the radio than you. The point man's gonna understand the route better than you do.
So that's a little bit. Not sure I agree with that.
It should be a little, you shouldn't know how to do it. You know how to do all those things,
but you're not going to be the expert. But you should absolutely do more.
If you're in a leadership position, you should do more. More work, more effort, more sweat,
more toil, and grind, and more exertion because you work for them.
And that's what a leader does. So there you go. That's the document. Short, sweet,
proverbs of the light infantry. Good things to think about applies to many aspects of life.
You disagreed with a few things. The amount that you disagree with is actually pretty small when
you consider. This was written 50 something years ago. That's pretty impressive staying power
as far as all those concepts go. Yep. And I don't know if we'll ever hear from major Scott
R. Mick Michael, US Army. But if we do, I'm sure he could clarify some of these and explain him
in a different tone or a different aspects or perspective that I don't understand. Also, you know,
the time that it's written in 1980 something, 1985 maybe. So my guess is as a major,
he probably wasn't likely wasn't in Vietnam unless he was an enlisted guy in Vietnam,
just doing the timeline. So maybe bounce in these things off the wars and Iraq and Afghanistan would
actually, I think if we discussed him, I think we would come to some kind of resolution on some
of these, you know, maybe that I didn't understand it correctly or I didn't see what the perspective
that he was talking about. So, you know, and he might also be like, yeah, you know what,
I didn't fully, I didn't fully calculate that aspect of it. Yeah. So, but yeah, I mean, the vast majority
of them are very, I'm in total agreement with. Yeah. Yeah, a lot of times when those, when the language
is that of always and never. So that tends to make it the very least feel like, okay,
there are no real exceptions to that. And then as time goes on, you can start to see the exceptions.
And then, you know, how one exception kind of can kind of open the flood gates for others, you know,
and you're like, oh, wait, we're seeing this exception kind of often, oh, shoot, we should maybe
re-valuate or update that always. Yeah. It's like often, often or, you know, tens not to or something like this,
you know, got to be careful with always never. Got to. Thanks. All right. Well, speaking of doing more,
it seems like we should do more, more work, more effort, more toil. Yeah. You said something
really interesting right there at the end. So you work for them. Yeah. It's not as intuitive as one might
think when you're in the position, you know, it's a leader. It seems like they work for you. If you don't
have that intuition, you need to write that on your, you know, on the cover of your notebook. Yeah.
So I have kids and that's another one, right? Where it's kind of like, it's almost like, it's not,
I don't want to say intuitive because intuitive is wrong. We're more like on the surface. Like on the
surface, the kids got to listen to you, you know, but no, like you're the one who you're essentially
working for them. You're a job to get them up to speed, you know, all this stuff. Yeah.
I don't know. It's weird. No, there comes a point when they're going to be working for you doing
them dishes. I'm cleaning and catching. I'm not ignoring the benefits of the kids doing the
dishes instead of me now. I'm not ignoring the benefits of that. But that's not why you teach
your kids to do the dishes so they can do them for you, you know? That's not the primary reason.
It's not the primary, well, it may be the primary reason, but it's not the most important reason.
Okay, my, well, emphasis on the word might not love that. So like, I never, like, I always feel bad.
So let's say, okay, so one of my kids has a chore. It's real, by the way. So one of my kids has a list of
chores. I've noticed that a lot of your hypothetical situations are just real.
Yes, yes, yes, you give a lot of, let's say there's by the way, this is real. Okay, so let's just call
it what it is. But there's a reason I do it only because I don't need you asking all these very
specific questions necessarily, not necessarily you, but other people ask me these specific
questions and then now on a rack yourself out. Yeah, well, there might be that too. But I,
I usually am looking for the answer that applies to more than just me in my solidest of
existence. You're trying to broaden the expansive your question, trying to get a check.
So always appreciate it. If let's say the chores are to one of the chores is to
load the dishwasher. Okay, put all the dirt dishes in the dishwasher. But let's say this child,
um, didn't eat dinner with us. They went out with their friends for dinner. They came home. They
got to do their chores every night. Yeah. Meanwhile, they got to load the dishwasher all our dishes.
All the people, you know, it doesn't seem right. It just on the surface it just seems like all this
kind of wrong, you know. Doesn't seem right to who me. Oh, making them do that. Okay,
like it's like, what are you my servant? Now you got to clean up my mess. You didn't even
participate with me. You know, it's like they kind of feels that way for me. Echo Charles the Merciful.
But there's a bigger picture than that. Yeah. Where his job is that for a reason. It's not to clean
up after me. It's to teach him that in life like these things have to be right. Like things that
you can do, you know, to function. So it goes beyond that big of a skill. So you got to suck it up, you know.
Yeah. Yeah. But also you need to explain why. Right. You need to explain why. Yeah. And if you
explain the why, then they go, yeah, you know what that makes sense. Yeah. You can't say because I told
you do. You can't say because I'm the dad. Need to say, well, here's what's going on. Yeah.
Boom. Ask them what you call it. Yeah. I think it's this is the technique in sales where you ask
them like questions with only one answer, you know, like, or it's basically this like if you
they say, why kind of eat this cup cake or whatever. And I'll be like, hey, you know, cup cakes aren't
good for you, right? And usually that just goes right over their head. It likes not good for me. Really
because it seems really good right now, you know, as far as I'm concerned. So I'm like, okay,
if this cup cake makes you less healthy, less the healthy other person. And one of my jobs
on my many is to look up for you, your well-being and your health. And I allow you to eat this cup
cake, would I be being a good dad? They can never say yes. Sometimes I'll say yes as a joke. But they understand.
But they know what's up. You know, put the cup cake down. You know, explaining why I'm doing what I'm
doing. Whether it's quickly biting off the frost like what is frosting anyways? I think sugar butter
a lot of butter and sugar. And then there's like, I don't know if some vanilla, maybe some cream or
salt. It takes most I would say 70% of the cakes I've eaten in my life were only the cake itself not
good. But the first thing when I was a little kid, right? Yeah, yeah. I wanted to get that corner
piece that was had frosting on the floor. It's the first time. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, good. Right?
Were you in that game? Or were you taking a middle piece that had one side of frosting? Yeah. So oddly
and when I was a kid, yes, but as I grew up, it's probably just a maturity thing. Really? You know,
you know, like, I like less, less frosting. You didn't matured of that. I didn't mature out of that.
Yeah. In fact, I, you know, I won't want to eat the cake because that's we know that's just
weakness, right? Yeah, put the frosting that's where the stranger like, you know what, I don't even
need to eat the cake. But maybe a little knife, snatch full of freaking frosting, which I don't
even know what it was until you just told me. Yeah. Well, I understand. So there you go. It makes sense
as opposed to say the brownies where you want the middle piece of the brownie because that's a
softer one. Oh, I like the brownie that's a little bit like the hardened part, you know,
around. Oh, so do you like the edges? Yeah, I guess it depends on the name when you're a kid,
like when I'm just, this is all just when I was a kid, you know, you're just in the game, right?
You just, you're tracking sugar like a little addict. Yeah. I mean, I'm not going to pee
Roberts's level. Did you hear? Yeah. When pee Roberts was talking about having damp,
sugar cubes hidden in a tensile hole, they're hidden in his room. Yeah, that's going hard. He's
going hard for sure. Like that's, that's some weird phrase. Yeah. You're definitely the guy looks
against a look on his face where it comes to sweet and stuff. Look, I got a sweet,
she's sure what I have her man. He starts losing his mind, bro. Yeah. Oh, that's right. That's
where we had that guy. He wasn't on the podcast. It was when we were up and up in Montana.
And he was starting going all sugar crazy on me. Started getting the wildfires.
So I get crazy. I was both talking about sugar. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Man. That's why he's a good test for Jockel fuel because he's got to sweet a legit, like certified
lifelong sweet tooth. Yeah. We're talking in a crackhead of that's got sugar cubes. Yeah.
And he gets a weird twinkle in his eye when he starts talking about he's sugar cubes. He's a
good test for Jockel fuel because he's not in here going, you know, it tastes pretty good. Like he will
straight reject something. Yeah. If it doesn't, if it doesn't have that sweet little kicker,
it's true. He's not down for the cause Pete Roberts. Oh, yeah. And you get a health person who's
down always down for the, you know, playing chicken breasts and broccoli and all this stuff. That guy
who's like down for that kind of stuff and then he's going to taste some, you know, some peanut butter
chocolate, malk or whatever. And the thing is not where it needs to be sweetness flavor. Why is
he's going to be like, oh yeah, man. That's pretty interesting. He's a chicken breast broccoli guy. He's
that. Wow. Man. This is amazing. Might be a little too sweet. Pete Roberts like, you know,
if you don't, if you don't knock it out of the park with Pete, he, you know, he's like whatever.
You know, he's over there freaking crawling around looking for sugar. You just pop the crack up.
Oh, he's doing a piece. He's doing great. Speaking of jacophu, what do we got? Yeah. So
yeah, forget about the cupcakes and all this stuff or whatever. You know, if, if we know
that eating cupcakes, sugar, butter, frosting, brownies, sugar cubes, if we know that that's bad
for us makes us less healthy. And we have to be more healthy to be more capable to help the
people that we work for. Yeah. We still eat this stuff. Are we being a good leader? Good leader,
good dad, good mom, good parent, good friend, good brother, good sister, good compatriot, good human
being good sisters freaking no nude. Negative answers freaking negative. And I get it things tastes
good, I guess one. Good news. I got good news across the board. Okay, first off, before we get to the
two good of the news, the great news. Maybe some guidelines. Okay, we want to be working out
we want to stay healthy. We want to stay capable. We want to stay mentally and physically
in the game. We'll say we're going to stand in this earth. We're all on. All right. So you might
need some supplementation. I'll help you. Big time. Chocolate supplement. If you're going hard,
I'm going to say you're going to need supplementation. Yeah. If you're going hard, you're going to
need supplementation. If you're pushing hard, you're going to need supplements. Yep. And we got a bunch.
So let's start with a physical and cognitive discipline. It's the name discipline. Many modes
get the energy drink. We'll home ready to drink cans. No, let's just go I guess. The the
capsules and the powder called discipline. So the energy drink cans, they're available in multiple
places. Wow. He's close. He's close. Jocophonefuel.com online. Vitamin shop. Is that everywhere?
Yep. Worldwide. World shop. Boom. There you go. Only in America. But yeah, it's the boom.
Multiple options as far as the where to get it. This is just energy drink cans. Vitamin
shop has everything else. Yeah. This is all that we're about to talk about. Okay. So what are
those things? Other supplementation joint warfare. A joint warfare and superkilled oil. This
is for your joints and some general health stuff in there as well. That'll keep you in the game
big time, especially on the on the physical front. Also, vitamin D3 and cold war for immunity.
Stay in the game. Don't worry about getting sick anymore. That's a thing. You start over training.
That's sleeping enough. All this stuff. Right. Sickness will come and get you. Take you out for a little
while. If you just let that happen, are you being a good leader? Are you? No. That's good. You're
letting down everybody. You're kind of nervous. That was this book. You read it on podcast.
And it really, this thing stuck with me because I kind of had this inkling of this concept.
But I never could really arrive at it and embrace it as much until I heard it. Where it's like,
it's like, I forget the exact words, but it said, like, if you get sick, that's kind of your
phone. Don't let your own thing affect the team kind of thing. It was like, oh, it was one of these
things. Where it's kind of like, if you get, it was kind of kind of raw because sometimes,
right, you just get sick. You get it. It does happen. Dissentry or something to think. You know,
it's like, sure, you can take measures to try to avoid it. But sometimes, on avoidable,
this in the book you read and was like, still, that's your bad. Don't let that jerk. Was that?
I forget. But it was like, man, your personal shit. Don't, don't even come over here with that stuff.
You better keep, keep moving kind of a thing. Chuck. It's like, dang it. Trying to figure out what
book that was, we'll, we'll go back to it. Yeah. But it was, it is interesting. So let's say we
apply that philosophy. Boom. We got some measures, some significant measures. That's a vitamin D.
Three, by the way. And also the Cold War for you, me and any boom. Also, the good news that I was
about to present, we got protein supplementation, but we don't need cupcakes anymore. It replaces
the cupcakes and the frosting. Don't need frosting certified, accepted taste by Pete Roberts,
the sugar cube addict. It's just a good thing in this case, as far as like, what do you call
credentials? Yeah. So yes, best tasting protein on the market. Straight up in the world. Yeah.
Straight up. Straight up. Check it out. Also, all this stuff, if you want to get it for free,
shipped to your house, you go to jockelfield.com. If you subscribe to one of these things,
you'll get it for free, shipping for free, which is, that's what we're doing to compete with
other, you know, we're talking about big guys, little guys today, big companies, little companies.
We got big companies out there that are like shipping stuff for free, which is good. They have
the capacity to do that. How do we compete with them? Cool. We figured out away. Subscribe
free shipping. That works. So there you go. There's an example, real world example of the
light infantry mindset going against the big heavy hitters out there. It's true. That's a big deal
of free shipping. Sometimes some of us, you know, when we check out, we see a free shipping.
That's nice. That's it. In it. So yeah. Also, do you just have stuff? Because we're doing
you just enough. We're back in the game. We're back. Coronavirus. I remember that. Yeah.
You know, that was a thing back in the day. But we're back to in GG2. So you need some GG2
G's, rash guards, other equipment. Go to origin. USA.com. That's where you can get them.
It's all American made stuff. Yeah. And just stuff for like wearing too. Like things to cover
your legs in called pants. The best pants ever. You know, Delta jeans. Get factory jeans too.
If you're living up north, we understand. You're probably going to get the factory jeans. They're
heavier. If you're living down south or you're living out the west coast, you're probably
looking at the Delta 68 jeans and boots. You get boots. Yeah. Are they doing that wallet? Or
the SP kind of flexing on us? Do you want to do it? Yeah. There's a couple versions of the
wallet. There's like that reals. What a slim. Yeah. Minimal. Whatever. Pied called it concealed care.
Yeah. Yeah. You guys, you guys up there all cracked out on sugar cubes. What is
a continued carry wallet? Probably one. But like it is cool because every time like because
a wallet, you don't just automatically think, or I don't anyway, but when you will help us
it out, you can tell like, you know, you took some pride in that one. Do it. So they put out some
cool stuff. Yeah. No, well, P takes massive pride in the whole process from designing it and
then the functionality of it and then the production of it. Yeah. Because think about, think about
something's going from his head. From his head to people's hands passing through the company
being built by the factory. Like it's awesome. So the whole, everyone there, everyone there
when a wallet goes and when a pair of boots goes out, everybody there's pride all over that stuff.
Yeah. It's like you got to represent, right? You can't just be throwing in some half thought
idea and be like, hey, try this and then show everybody. It's like, bro, we're not doing that
and stuff. We're going to all of them. Yeah. That's what we're doing. We're not throwing something
together. This is all in cereal. So is P proud? Yeah. Is every person that's on the line creating
this stuff proud? Hell yeah. It's freaking legit. Makes sense. Also speaking of legit, Jacoa's star,
this one equals freedom, shirts and hats and hoodies. Some match cards on there. Um, some more
kids stuff on there. Some soap on there. Jaco's soap, trooper soap, killer soap and the bacterial
charcoal activated. So, sorry. So, oh, this stuff. Um, yeah. So if you want to represent,
while you're on this path, you know, this is where you can, you can get your attire, your gear.
Also, we have a subscription situation there too. shirts. Interesting designs. Creative.
You're wearing one right now. If you want to go on YouTube and look at the current shirt that
echo Charles is wearing. Unableable, by the way, you missed it. A lot of people have it,
you know, they're representing. But here's the thing, every time you're learning and you're coming
up with more dope designs. Sure. I tried to keep a standard quality level. Whatever. Either way,
it's fun. Um, yes, it's called the shirt lockers. So yeah, man, sign up for that. You know, if you're
interested and check out everything else on their Jaco store.com, like something. Subscribe to the podcast.
Also, check out the Jaco unravelling podcast with Darryl Cooper. We've been getting kind of
crazy with those. Getting nuts, as they say, but they'll freaking awesome feedback. We'll
keep knocking about grounded podcast. We talked to Dean Lest. We're getting all those out pretty
soon. Order your kid podcast and you can also join us in the underground. So so we have an alternative
platform that we are, we have created so that we have control if contingencies unfold that we need
to execute an alternative platform. We're not doing it. We hope to not do it. But things are strange
in the world. So Jaco on a ground.com, if you want to help support the the alternate world,
if needed, you can you can pay $8.18 a month. And we're doing like a unadditional podcast where we talk
about it. Just really interesting stuff. That's not quite Jaco podcast material, but it's Jaco
life material. Alternative and amplifying information. Yeah, and look, if you just, if you can't
afford that, no factor. Email assistance at jockelwinderground.com. We're just trying to make
sure we're taking care of and your taken care of. Should things start to go sideways. We also have
a YouTube channel where I and the assistant director for some awesome videos and then echo put some
videos on there too. Unraveling is on there too. By the way, all of them? No, but they're they're
getting rolled out as well. Yeah, I've got a new one up there. That's good to hear. Yeah, those
unraveling podcasts. I can't be interested to read the comments on those. Yeah, so that's a thing
because those really run the risk and they have a head like a, no, YouTube will fly it because
of the material. Anytime you and Darrell Cooper start talking about genocides and all the, you know,
the brutal, we're selling it on deep of history and you know, whatever it's like YouTube's like,
oh, you pump your brakes there. One time we were talking about something and Darrell's like,
you know, this is this particular thing is really bad and it's just not appropriate. No,
not what you want to hear in a podcast. We got Donald's like, Hey, bro, I don't never want to hear
that again. He's like, I'll never say it again. Like, that's what we're doing. You know, if we don't
address, if we don't address and inform people about what happens when things go sideways,
then people will realize how bad it is. That's what happens. So yeah, we're getting flagged,
getting censored, must be 18 or older. You'd think that we were putting out freaking pornographic
material. We're not. We're talking about what communism does. We're talking about what authoritarian
governments can do. Yeah. Yeah. It didn't, it never got, you know, deep into history in high school
and all this stuff or whatever, but kind of the thing of this is going to be known news to you,
obviously, but when you do presented in such an interesting way or whatever, it one of the many
valuable things you can get from it is like, yeah, you realize how bad it was back then. And at
the same time by contrast, you realize, oh, today isn't that bad. Even the bad stuff that happens
like, man, you kind of compare to the whole of the thing. It starts to, it starts to offer this,
this may be more enlightened perspective on things. Well, yeah, and it also offers you
an understanding of why things are happening and how things happen. Because look, just like
leadership is something that you can learn about from the past, so is everything else and to
sit here and think that we're in a you totally unique time. And that nothing like this is ever
happened before. It'll be different this time. That's freaking wrong. That's just wrong. The way that
the world works, the way human nature works doesn't change. And there might be different technology,
but just like technology won't make the difference in light infantry battle, technology will not
change human nature. It'll have influence over it. But we need to watch out for what we need to
watch out for. Human nature inherently does the same things over and over again. So let's be careful.
Check out the unraveling. Check out Darryl Cooper's podcast, Margar made. Right now there's a lot
of there's a flare up going on in the middle east. You want to get the background on that. You
want to try and you want to get some understanding of what's going on in the middle east. You don't
know. I'm going to tell you you don't know. And I studied the middle east and the conflicts in
the middle east. Darryl Cooper's podcast, Margar made is a doctorate in what happened in the
Israeli Palestinian scenario situation. So check that thing out if you can. Psychological warfare.
I made an album with tracks. And you can get it on any MP3 platform. There's no music,
but just FYI. Flipside canvas if you need something hang on your wall. We got to go to my brother. He's
got an awesome company made in America. Flipside canvas stuff to hang up on your wall. Got a bunch
of books final spin. Starting to get some anticipation from people about final spin. Because
let's face it. It's hard to understand what's happened. You're looking at it. You're seeing
some words. You're hearing about the story. You're kind of wondering what the hell is this about. So
that's common pre-order it now so that the publisher actually makes enough. Actually makes enough.
Leadership strategy and tactics field manual. The code, the evaluates the protocol. This
one is freedom. Way of the warrior kid 1, 2 and 3. Mike in the dragons about face by hack worth
extreme ownership dichotomy. Leadership. These are the books of written thus far. Just getting warmed up.
Have a leadership consultancy called National Unfront. And this is what we do. What we do is
leadership. That's what we do. That's the only thing we do. That's the only thing we do is
leadership. Big companies, small companies. That's what we do all day long every day. If you have
any problems inside your organization, I can tell you right now, they are leadership problems.
And the way you solve those problems is through leadership. Go to echelonfront.com. If you want to
work with the echelon front team also we have online training. We just put up
12 new courses where we go through each chapter of extreme ownership and break down
in a granular level how to implement these these principles in what you're doing.
So check out efoline.com. We have the master live live event. We didn't do any in 2020 because of
misrona. But we're executing May 25th and 26th. We got some seats left right now in Orlando.
Get on it. Phoenix is next August 17th and 18th. That's going to be a hot one.
Las Vegas, October 28th and 29th. Go to extremownership.com. Look. We sell out. So if you want to come,
try and get there quick. Also efo battle field. We do battle field walks. I'll let you know
when we'll next one of those is taking place. And also if you want to help service members active
and retired, you want to help their families. You want to help gold star families. Then you can check out
a gold star mom, Mark Lee's mom, mom, Lee. She has a charity organization. And if you want to donate
or you want to get involved, go to americasmightywarriors.org. And if you want more of my obstinate
opinions or you need more of echoes in cow cubal comments, you can find us on the inner
webs. On Twitter, on Instagram or as echo calls it, the gram or on that Facebook. Echoes
ad aquatrals. And I am at jocca willink and thanks to all the folks out there in uniform right
now with a special shout out to all the like infantry. Thank you for making this sacrifices that
you make to protect us and the same goes to those that wear the uniform here on the home front
talking about our police and law enforcement firefighters, paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers,
correctional officers, border patrol, secret service and all first responders. Thank you for your
sacrifices to protect us here at home. And everyone else out there, you might not be a light
infantry soldier or leader, but you can certainly adopt the attitude of the light infantry, the offensive
mindset, the initiative, the total self-reliance, the flexibility, the improvisation, the discipline,
the trust, the confidence and they never say die approach to problems. And if you go at life
like that, you are going to win. So go out there and get after it. And until next time,
Zekong and Jocco out.